---
title: "Was habe ich gelernt?"
date: 2022-01-14
---
In the beginning, I was completely lost and also had trouble finding myself in the library/archive environment (also I couldn’t see the meaning for this course to be mandatory for everyone majoring in data management and usability). For this reason, I have therefore decided that I would also check the software on its usability to make the course somewhat more approachable and to some extent also interesting (for me). And I must confess it worked! 

My conclusion is, the UI and usability are most of the time very complex and lack a state-of-the-art. And for first-time users it is overwhelming. As a UX designer I am currently working on the development of a surveillance software for the government and can understand the challenges those software faces. It is hard to reduce the complexity of the amount of features and functionality those software need to implement for libraries and archive institutions all over the world. Moreover, like many software, it seems that many paths lead to the “same” outcome, making it also hard to create a simple workflow (even if they all work with standards). Therefore, there is indeed room for improvement when it comes to UX. 

After a few lectures, however, I started to understand the topics, interactions, and the usage (benefit) of it. In particular, the databases and search query lectures (especially the last lectures seven and eight ). In the meanwhile, I was also approached for a job vaccine at a database company using elastic search, which I thanks to BAIN I have heard of before (and had a tiny hint of what it is). This gave me the motivation to understand the search engine environment more (due to lack of time, I will need to push this, however, after the conclusion of my studies). This made me wonder whether it would be possible to change the focus of BAIN to more general usage of databases and search engines not only focusing on libraries and archive software (due to the fact that the course is mandatory for all majors). 

Another interesting insight of this course was the conversion of the different data formats (and learning about new data formats) and the interfaces. Understanding the API was interesting, since it can and is used in other software and is quite important in a data-driven world. I would have wished for examples in other software. 

Looking back, I did have more *aha* moments than expected in the beginning. Especially working with Shell, understanding the comment lines better, and gaining an overall overview of the different software and how they work (together), and as mentioned API and search engine. Last but not least, even if I did have many “learnings” I can’t say if I would be able to use my knowledge again without help (guidance), or have a conversation with experts about it. The topic was very broad and only touched on the surface of each topic. And once more, the module is very focused on two fields which is difficult to relay if you don’t have a background (or an interest) in it. 

And personal learning; on the first day after the concept of the Lerntagebücher were introduced, I decided to write mine in English (which is easier than German for me), however, it was sometimes quite challenging, since I needed to translate what was said during class and google sometimes the technical terms so I would have them in English too. I am still not sure, what would have been better! 

All this said, Thank you for the work and dedication you two put in it! 
