---
title: "Funktion und Aufbau von Bibliothekssystemen"
date: 2021-10-01
---

*emoji with head explosion* This class was intense. I am not sure how to improve it, but the first half-time was looong and confusing. Sebastian was indeed very fast on explaining everything, but luckily I was able to follow and complete the task. What  I still miss is the reason behind doing it. So the WHY (e.g. by doing so, we will be able to …). Since I do not come form this field and don’t really have any relationship with it, it would be nice to have an understanding of the WHY. 

Another confusian was the explanation of Git, Gitlab, and GitHub (I missed some examples here - which I can link things to, it is much easier for me to memorize it). It also does not help that they all have similar names...But I did my research, and now understand what it is used for. For Git and GitHub, which is what we will be using: 

* **Git**: Software that handles source code versioning, letting you make and track local file changes and share changes with a remote repository.
* **GitHub** :A cloud service for remote hosting of git repositories. In addition to hosting your code, the site helps manage software development projects with features like issue tracking, collaborating with other GitHub users, and hosting web pages [1]


It was interesting to work with the terminal, and upload the document through my desktop on the internet. I would add this to my “AHA” (or rather wow) moment. I can see and understand the use of it, however, this solution is a bit complex, and it requires a bit of IT affinity in my opinion. I enjoy working with Shell (Terminal) and seeing the collaborative work with Git (even if I still feel not very secure sometimes, or know 100% what I am doing). 

Feeling a bit lost, not knowing where exactly to find the information, too many links. But this I have felt many times before, it takes time to adjust but also to understand how every subject works differently. 

MARC21: standard for libraries (never heard of it before), but I have learned that it has its own format that requires its own software (nowadays we can apply XML for it, but still it is preferred to use special tailored software for it). The format is  used for representation and exchange of data in machine-readable form (according to the internet). However I would also like to understand the WHY, and WHEN it is used in “a daily activity”?! 

## Koha: 
Koha is an open source application in which MARC21 can be applied. 

I have successfully installed Koha on my virtual machine (I hope it was successful, but I haven't tested it yet). Until now I only know that Koah is a free library management software. From their webpage, I also know that Koha includes modules for acquisitions, circulation, cataloging, serials management, authorities, flexible reporting, label printing, multi-format notices, offline circulation for when Internet access is not available, etc. [2]

A few things I would just like to mention:
A 30 minutes break is a must (even if we did had time to “not actively” do something,when Sebastian was going through the process for a second time, I didn’t consider it as a break, since I was on alert and still here)
Secondly, not sure how fair the min. 3000 characters are, since some people are already “experts” coming from these fields and have waaaay more something to say (example on the entrance of “wo bin ich gestartet”). 

#### Sources:

1 : https://cyberhelp.sesync.org/faq/git-vs-github-vs-gitlab.html
2: https://koha-community.org/about/
