---
title: "Metadaten modellieren und Schnittstellen nutzen (1/2)"
date: 2021-12-02
---

The goal of the lecture was to harvest data through the OAI-PMH interface. For the harvesting of the data, we used the tool [VuFindHaverest](https://vufind.org/wiki/indexing:oai-pmh), which we were able to operate through our own terminal. With the VuFindHaverest, we should be able to harvest data from all different systems we have worked with so far (Koha, ArchivesSpace, and DSpace) and how they can be processed. (Koha files are already in MARC21XML). The picture shown in class helped me to get a better understanding of the goal and the next steps. I find interfaces very interesting since we live in a world where data are becoming very crucial and they (un)fortunately come in different formats. 
I, unfortunately, couldn’t attend the class on the day but was happy to re-watch the class and do everything at my own pace. 
### Crosswalk
Is a bridge “builder” between the different metadata standards, making it possible to convert metadata to and from another standard (Dublin Core to MARC21). As seen in the past example when importing/exporting, it needs to be done with awareness, since some data can be “lost”, or that they don’t have the same rules for requirements. In order to convert the date with as little loss as possible, a mapping is required. Mapping is a ruleset that defines which values ​​and elements from one standard correspond to the values ​​and elements from the other standard (here an example with title/subtitle was given,  showing how different standards enter the data and what problems this may bring). Gladly there are guidelines on how to order the data when converting (but a 1:1 mapping of the data can not be guaranteed). 
XSLT: eXtensible Stylesheet Language Transformations Is a script (during class it is said to be a programming language, however, W3schools compares it with CSS) language for the transformation of XML documents. 
### MarcEdit:
 [MarcEdit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MarcEdit) is a software that edits metadata. On the internet, it is said that it is primarily to create and manipulate MARC records. MarcEdit is not an open-source software, but it has open access. MarcEdit was founded by Terry Reese (who is to date the creator of the software). 
The software had to be installed via the terminal into our virtual box. 
The usability of MarcEdit is very straightforward. The modal which pops up has only three options to choose from, making it easy to understand and to use. There is almost no room for error. The pictures of his dog are unique but make the design less stiff. Due to problems in the Linux version, however, it was necessary to make a few corrections (configure the functions). This is for a first-time user, not very intuitive and you would need the knowledge to understand the process and the WHY this step is required. Functions that were corrected: EAD to MARC, and OAIDC to MARC21XML. 
We got to try out the crosswalk by using the MarcEdit21 software to convert data from the original formats EAD from ArchivesSpace into MARC and then MARC21XML (there is no direct conversion from EDA to MARC21XML) and OAIDC from DSpace to MARC21XML. What I understood from Mr. Meyer, is that the MARC file is a binary format and can not be understood when open (what I also saw in the video). It was interesting to see, how a file from ArchivesSpace has a different focusing point in comparison to the MARC21XML, a library-focused standard that focuses on object description.  
Even if the conversion did not occur without any information (data) loss, I was able to convert the files to MARC21XML successfully. 
