---
title: ""Technische Grundlagen""
date: 2021-09-28
---

Something I am just realizing, write an entry in your diary as soon as possible. Unfortunately, I have forgotten a lot about the first lecture we had… 

The first lecture was to give an introduction to the BAIN shared document, and everything else we are going to work with during the semester. Since I had so many issues with my laptop during summer (due to too many installed things, which used a lot of storage space), I, unfortunately, deleted some of FH’s systems… And the VPN (Pulse Secure) was one of them. Needed to have it in order to access the BAIN files through Horizon (which was also not working). I had to contact the FH to ask them where to find the instructions to download the Pulse Secure again.

After this, I was set, and could finally begin! I’ve tried to work with the virtual box (Linux), but also had trouble accessing and navigating through it (also kinda traumatized by the virtual machine, since we needed to work with Ubuntu and that was a nightmare). The browser version however is much better!! I did have trouble finding the @ symbol. In case someone has a mouse and a mac, let them know the mouse can be found by pressing: option + 2. :)

Also on the 2nd day, we had an introduction to the Unix Shell (which luckily I already was familiar with) and added a few commands in it to see what happens. Since I am still very lost (on where to find what, and what do we need to open and operate now), I feel that the lecture is too fast. And I have difficulty understanding what we are doing, why we are doing it, and where we are doing it. I hope this will pick up as soon as I am settled and it becomes a routine. 

Setting up the diary on GitHub was easy (however, since I do not always read the instructions clearly before starting, I faced some barriers). For example the SETTING I was on my personal settings and couldn’t find the page to generate my URL GitHub page. Kind of drove me crazy. To make it “foolproof” maybe next time set step-by-step pictures instructions? 

TO BE CONTINUED!! 
