---
title: "Wo bin ich gestartet?"
date: 2021-09-27
---
Before getting started with this “diary” journey, I would like to introduce myself. My name is Talita, I am a 32 years young part-time student / UX designer / Accessibility for a big software company. And as you may have noticed, my major is a web- and usability engineering (not that experienced with different libraries nor archiving software). I first started my bachelor's degree believing I would pursue the path of data management since data is gaining an important role in our lives (personally and professionally). There are no devices that are filled with data...And sometimes filled with useful, double, or old data which can be deleted. But I guess we’re all too lazy to do so, and rather live to drown in the data chaos. 
So, let’s get started…

Wo bin ich gestartet? Right at the very beginning, I guess… With almost z-e-r-o experience in anything related to BAIN. And if I can be completely frank, my interest level is also very low. Therefore, I hope to be positively surprised by what is to come. Experience with a library or archiving software I have as a user. Library, the service which is provided by the FHGR to conduct research, downloads, etc. As for archiving, I personally archive everything on my iCloud and/or google drive (I am a heavy mac user, so I might be in trouble when using the Linux system). And at work, I am forced to use Alfresco and feds.ed.admin.ch for the governmental project I work on. Both have horrible UX and are so confusing to use and manage (maybe it’s just me, but I can say they have bad UX). But I wouldn’t know if these count as archiving software. More experience with a library or archiving content I have from my past semester, which to be 100% honest, did not interest me very much. But since I have experience with UX, I am 100% convinced that this type of software relay (or should rely on) heavily not only on its functionality but also on its user experience. Every software, you are forced to use, should AT LEAST present an outstanding user experience, so users understand it easily, faster, enjoy using it, and the error rates are very low. 

I use my information science knowledge to order (name) my files, so I can find them easily. For me, my knowledge gained from the past information science subject has been a big eye-opener on how important structure and naming are crucial in order to have a functional system, where not personally but also in a company everyone finds their documents. I know from experience that I spend a LOT of time searching for a file in a system that I didn’t create and save. And if every company would have a structured, easy way of saving / archiving their files, LOTS of hours and money could be saved. This is therefore something that interests me, and maybe I will gain more insights into it. 

Furthermore, I also believe having ground knowledge of how to efficiently archive your data/files will be a great advantage for the future. At the end of the course, I would hope to gain new learning, which I could implement in my daily life (professionally and privately). Hope not aiming totally in the wrong direction.


